---
title: "Optimized Transcranial Brain Stimulation for Tumor Treating Fields"
collection: publications
category: conferences
permalink: /publication/2024-02-17-paper-title-number-4
excerpt: 'This paper is about optimizing a technique called "TTFields", used as an alternative treatment for brain tumors by applying an electric field in the tumoral region.'
date: 2024-06-11
venue: 'Advances in Bioengineering and Clinical Engineering'
slidesurl: 'http://danteandrinolo.github.io/files/TTFieldsSABI2023Presentation.pdf'
paperurl: 'http://danteandrinolo.github.io/files/TTFieldsSABI2023Paper.pdf'
citation: 'Dante C. Andrinolo O., M. Fernández-Corazza, and C. Muravchik. Optimized Transcranial Brain Stimulation for Tumor Treating Fields. Advances in Bioengineering and Clinical Engineering. SABI 2023. IFMBE Proceedings, vol 114., 2024'
---

Abstract: Transcranial electrical stimulation (TES) is a field that investigates
the effects of applying low-intensity electrical currents to the
human brain using electrodes placed on the scalp. Tumor Treating Fields
(TTFields) is one application of TES, that consists of applying alternating
electric fields (∼300KHz) to a tumoral region to arrest its growth.
The physiological principle is that tumoral cells are killed during the
mitosis if the fields are aligned with the cell subdivision direction. The
conventional protocol involves switching between two ad-hoc and intuitive
anterior-posterior and left-right stimulation patterns. This paper
focuses on optimizing the current injection patterns to stimulate the tumoral
region, maximizing the average electric field intensity inside the
tumor along predefined electric field orientations. The reciprocity theorem
is used to optimize the current injection using two electrode arrays:
the conventional 36-electrode TTFields array and the 64-electrode 10-
20 electroencephalography array. A realistic head model, including brain
tissues and a tumor, is used to solve the forward problem of TES using
the finite element method. The performance is evaluated based on the
directionality and intensity metrics of the electric field within the tumor.
The results show improved performance in terms of directionality and
intensity for the optimized patterns compared to the conventional protocol.
The proposed optimization approach has the potential to enhance
the efficacy of TTFields.